versionutil(1) -- parse and update a version number.
===

## Synopsis

`versionutil` VERSION +major +minor +patch

`versionutil` VERSION --compare --gt --lt --eq VERSION

`versionutil` VERSION --print-major --print-minor --print-patch --print-tag

## Description

`versionutil` Increments, prints, and compares version numbers

`+major`, `+minor`, `+patch` can be used to increment a component of the version.

`--print-major`, `--print-minor`, `--print-patch`, `--print-tag` can be used to print components of the version.

`--compare`, `--lt`, `--gt`, `--eq` compares two version numbers.

## Supported Version Formats

versionutil supports short and long versions.

Short versions contain at least MAJOR.MINOR, and an optional tag.

Long versions contain at least MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, and an optional tag.

## Supported Version Format Examples

1.1    
1.1-alpha    
1.1+beta    
1.1+beta06    
2.0-rc1    

2.1.1    
2.1.1-alpha    
2.1.1+beta    
2.1.1+beta06    
2.2.0-rc1    

##Version Tags

Versions support a tag - a suffix after the version numbers.

It supports this format only:    

^[-|+][a-zA-Z0-9]*$


## Modifiers

Modifiers can be used in the version number.

Modifiers override +major, +minor, +patch.

### Zero Reset Modifier

Use ~ to tell the script you want to reset a component to zero. See the examples below for modifiers.

### Force Modifier

Use ! to force set the entire version, and not update any components. See the examples below for modifiers.

## Examples    

## Incrementing Components

$versionutil 1.2.3     
1.2.3

$versionutil 1.2.3 +patch    
1.2.4

$versionutil 1.2.3 +major +minor +patch    
2.3.4

## Modifiers

## Zero Reset Modifier

$versionutil 1.2.~    
1.2.0

$versionutil ~.~.~    
0.0.0

$versionutil 1.~.3    
1.0.3

$versionutil 1.~.3 +patch    
1.0.3

## Force Modifier

$versionutil !2.0.0    
2.0.0

$versionutil !1.2.3    
1.2.3

$versionutil !2.3.0 +patch    
2.3.0

## Printing Components

$versionutil 1.2.3 --print-major    
1

$versionutil 1.2.3 --print-minor    
2

$versionutil 1.2.3 --print-patch    
3

$versionutil 1.2.3-alpha-06 --print-tag
-alpha-06

$versionutil 1.2.3+beta-rc1 --print-tag
+beta-rc1

## Printing with Modifiers

All modifiers are applied first.

$versionutil 1.2.~ --print-patch
0

$versionutil !~.3.1 --print-major
0

## Comparing Versions Examples

$versionutil 1.2.5 --compare 1.2.4    
gt

$versionutil 1.2.3 --compare 1.2.4    
lt

$versionutil 1.2.3 --compare 1.2.3    
eq

$versionutil 1.2.3 --lt 1.2.2    
false

$versionutil 1.2.4 --gt 1.2.2    
true

$versionutil 1.2.3 --eq 1.2.3    
true

## Tests

You can run the internal unit tests:

$versionutil --test

## Author

Aaron Smith